the US Senate has approved a $95 billion
Aid package for Ukraine Israel and
Taiwan the overwhelming vote in favor
marks the end of six months of Deadlock
in Congress the measures approve around
$61 billion in long- awaited aid for
Ukraine alone it also designates more
than 26 billion in aid for Israel and 8
billion for Taiwan and US indopacific
allies on Saturday the House of
Representatives ended months of
stalemate to pass the aid package it's
expected to be signed into law by
President Biden shortly the Senate
Majority Leader Chuck Schumer said the
United States had shown its allies that
it would not turn its back on them a lot
of people inside and outside the
Congress wanted this package to fail but
today those in Congress who stand on the
side of democracy are winning the day to
our friends in Ukraine to our allies in
NATO to our allies in Israel and to
civilians around the world in need of
help help is on the way to our friends
in Ukraine America will deliver more
ammo and air defenses and basic supplies
that you need to resist Putin on the
battlefield our North America
correspondent Peter Bose has more on
what's been
approved this was a long time incoming
held up for months in large part by
Republicans in the house some of whom
would rather see more money spent here
in the United States on immigration and
on the issues affecting the southern
border of the US with Mexico but there
does seem to have been a change of heart
amongst some Republicans notably the
speaker of of the house which allowed it
to pass through that stage that part of
Congress at the weekend now rubber
stamped you could say or at least passed
in the Upper House the Senate as well
just remains for it to be signed into
law by President Biden we expect to see
that happening in the next few hours and
the president already issuing a
statement indicating that that military
aid that president zelinski in Ukraine
has said that is so desperately needed
that military aid will be on the way
we're told by the end of this week air
defense Weaponry in particular that is
so desperately needed that's part of the
$61 billion package for Ukraine then
there's 26 billion for Israel also
humanitarian aid for the people of G
and about 8 billion for Taiwan to Stave
off potential advances by China and some
of the issues in the indopacific
reason one of the measures in this bill
perhaps most controversial for some
Americans at least is the potential ban
on Tik Tock and this is part of the
security measure that is part of this
very large bill with essentially an
ultimatum to B Dan which is the company
the Chinese company that that owns Tik
Tok that they should divver divest and
sell the platform to an American owner
or face a ban in this country now
nothing is really going to happen
quickly it's quite likely that b dance
will take this to the courts claim that
this move is unconstitutional and uh
also suggests that the concerns of
Americans are misplaced or the concerns
of Washington are misplaced and that is
that the the Chinese government could
invoke security measures to in some way
get hold of the personal data of
Americans that is part of that app B Dan
likely to say that they've already taken
measures to ensure that that doesn't
happen Israel said the US Senate
approval of $13 billion in military aid
sent a strong message to its enemies
well let's get to more on this with our
Middle East correspondent Yan Nell so
tell us more about the reaction that
Israel has had to this usaid being
passed
well Israel's reaction is basically um
of of great thanks to the US its closest
Ally we've had that coming from uh the
Israeli foreign minister this is a top
story that this Aid package has been
passed in uh most of the Israeli media
this morning and if you break it down um
you can see that uh really you have
here5 billion dollar that goes for
replenishing and expanding Israel's air
defense systems that have been used so
much recently uh including in uh
shielding Israel from that attack um by
Iran um 3 and A2 billion for purchasing
Advanced Weapons Systems from the US a
billion for enhancing weapons production
and then on top of that 4 and a half
billion almost in other supplies and
services and then you have this other
amount um some 9 billion which is going
to humanitarian Aid in Conflict zones
around the world and that does include
money that will go uh for Gaza where
we've had the US expressing concerns
that it Still Remains close to famine
particularly in the north and you land
in the mean time we've also had reports
of some of the heaviest shelling of Gaza
in in
whis that's correct and this is
something that's reported up and down um
the Gaza Strip um in the north also um
some notable Israeli air strikes this
after the Israeli military issued fresh
evacuation orders to people living in
parts of BET in the north now this is
significant because this is an area that
Israel had long ago said that it had
cleared and it sort of adds to the sense
uh that Hamas in particular is able to
regroup is coming back and it gives us
an idea of where things could go in
terms of Israel's overall military um
offensive in Gaza um that it will
continue to have um you know Hamas
coming back as a threat in areas where
it it thinks um its troops have been
able to withdraw we've had rocket fire
Fire coming from the north of the Gaza
Strip um in in a meaningful way really
for the first time in many weeks in just
the past few days and the Israeli
military says it's hit rocket launch
sites with air strikes we've seen
hundreds of Palestinians already
responding to recorded messages and text
messages they've been sent telling them
that this is now being declared a
dangerous combat zone where they're
living they've been heading down towards
uh Gaza City uh in particular and I
think this comes of course to 200 days
into the war we had a message from a
rare message from the head of the Hamas
military Wing Abu abeda um talking about
how the Israeli military he said was
stuck in the Sands of Gaza um and at the
same time a lot of frustration being
expressed uh on that 200 day um marker
by families of Israeli hostages um still
being held in Gaza some of them joining
a demonstration in Tel Aviv last night
calling on the government desperately to
do more to bring their loved ones home
youan now thank you very much indeed